so
this is ipfs recovery we built this in
hackafest 2020 that happened over the
course of like
uh two months ago uh lasting 30 days so
this is kind of a story of
of how we like of what we did and uh
sprinkled with the ample technical
details
uh so coming into this hackathon i had a
lot of experience working with
uh distributed uh error correction in
error correction in the context of
distributed system so i thought it would
be a pretty cool idea to bring this over
to ipfs
um and what are the problems that
i that this solves so like the existing
problems that i wanted to tackle were
data corruption can lead to losses in uh
vital information because
uh data when you have a distributed
system you have data at storage and data
in in transit and you want to ensure
that there is integrity of both
both these modes of data so
data at rest can be uh compromised by
things like
coffee poured on your laptop or like a
massive power grip failure
uh and if uh i if if content is
being served potentially vital content
is being served from your devices onto
other devices in the network you don't
want this to happen you want to
ensure that there are different uh ways
to access the same information in your
in your
distributed system so you also have the
problem of no
churn where devices can just go offline
for any reason whatsoever i could just
decide i want to turn my computer off
right
and also there's the issue of censorship
if there are people who are actively
targeting data that's certain types of
data on the network
they could go to any link to make sure
that it's not there
and finally transient connectivity uh
poor internet connectivity can happen
for all kinds of reasons in
a distributed system so it's it's
important to have that that
consideration
uh i also want to add um cyber security
has three components which is uh
confidentiality integrity and
availability uh so
confidentiality is probably the one
that's probably paid most attention to
uh so integrity and availability are
quite important too so i think uh
erasure coding is is what's really uh
the the solution that that allows us to
uh ensure proper cyber security for
distributed systems
so what is the ratio coding it's a
method of data protection in which data
is broken into fragments expanded and
encoded with redundant data pieces and
stored across a set of different
locations or storage media
uh well what this jargon actually means
is uh data on
data that's erasure coded kind of
becomes like a hydra where you have
multiple heads
and if you chop off some of the heads
you can
you can like it just keeps recovering
over and over again until you chop off
most or if not
all the heads uh so uh it's it's worth
consuming some extra storage to obtain
better data resiliency underwriting
performance
and uh um data can be spread uh
across the network geographically so
it'll even allows for better performance
and delivery guarantees
um so why why does this matter
specifically for ipfs
uh well i think the uh distribution of
data in the limitless manner
that's in the core of ipfs it requires
strong integrity guarantees
but we want to make sure that data is
available at all costs uh no matter what
kind of data it is we want to make sure
it's it's available
it doesn't matter who or what
circumstance is trying to get rid of
that data
we want to ensure that it's still there
uh and it's it's
it's a long requested feature there are
issues like github issues from like uh
2016 that are that are still open that
uh that address this issue
and uh no no specific solution exists
for the ipld layer which is where we
actually built this out
as you'll see shortly uh and finally we
kind of kept this in the spirit
of ipfs uh which is just keep it very
modular
and pluggable in in many different ways
so we actually have a few different
eraser codes that we've built out
so i'll let uh talk a little bit about
our hack and what we actually built
oh i think you're a mute
there you go uh hey guys um um
i'll go with some more technical details
so how
all works um first as
uh my original goal uh was to create
um a module for
recovery that will follow most of the
best practice best practices uh i've
seen in ipfs and how you do modular
things
uh how you split everything so
this module also introduce
interfaces that like tries to be
uh like uh useful
abstract and like uh convenient to use
um originally we started uh
like um to think uh we we we
uh got that we need uh ipfs need a
ranger coding we did some research
and seen that uh actually there is a lot
of
issues regarding that like ideas on how
to implement
uh but um like
i decided to use uh to integrate that in
ipld
and ipfs currently work with first
version of ipld so
the apfs recovery is integrated over
there
um for for the hug demonstration for
thing that's
due to to show something on
hacker fest we uh also added
a new comments to ipfs
uh the main one is in code that allows
you to
encode any uh deck
to re to recoverable deck uh so you just
put one at once id and you get another
one
uh and interesting is that uh we need
uipfast get uh
or using the other hash you got you will
still uh see the original file
so actually you just interchange uh
one one hash to another hash and you
still be able to
get original content by this newly
generated
hash which also has a recovery feature
um also there are like
different ideas for commons that can be
added to your ipf sli that will expand
the
uh ipfs with new features
and like
will help to manage recoveries in some
way
so you can do manual recoveries or you
can
uh look at um
uh like some states uh
in ipfs recovery model that are
that can be useful to see through the
bug sessions
um our main implementation uh
uh as uh like we which is rit salaman
which is kind of uh very popular erasure
coding and it's
simple to understand um
i won't be describing how it works um i
think in terms of
like some mathematical details uh but
uh uh simply uh it just allows you to
uh to recover uh
to first i'll generate some additional
uh blocks uh for your existing blocks
for example you have seven blocks but
you decided to generate three more
blocks
uh that will that will then we will have
10 blocks at all
but if you will lose any three of them
doesn't matter what you can still uh get
the original file
uh so you still can regenerate
those those blocks that represents the
actual
user data even if you lost them
uh so about implementation um
we needed to uh for
for this
for a ritual and uh for that um
for ability integration uh we needed to
uh like find a way to integrate it and
uh ipld we zero
has uh nodes uh
interface uh that's can be addressed by
a cid
and that's id defines the content
which is uh connected to like actual
uh node implementation and we added
a new cd codec like custom to
address uh newly uh new
new nodes uh new recovery nodes that
uh are uh wrapping
protonates uh which are used as links to
uh to blocks on the network and uh
what this uh recovery node does it also
like
adds additional free links to uh
and um recovery notes
uh links to do to the node
so uh this uh
allows um the recovery worked
on the uh whole ipfs network that means
that
if you have a kind of you have a
recovery node but you can get
the block you need you can fall back to
getting the block
for getting recovery notes and that will
help you to recover
the block you originally needed
and the good thing that this works uh
not just on your local note but uh
if you want to uh distribute your
content and share it with others
on ipfs it might be maybe very demanding
and it flows around in ipfs network so
it really helps to
recover and to increase
availability of the data you store on
ipfs
that's kind of like uh let's continue on
um
implementation uh so
this id hack uh this id is uh
nut it's not uh it
is actually a hack because uh
from my understanding um we need kind of
separate
uh things uh
it's kind of plugins new free
model where we can add additional
plugins or some
additional uh repre
letters or something to make say these
uh
additional custom data uh to
to address that some additional
uh capabilities of the data you address
uh because uh recovery isn't
actually a codec you can tell that uh
this
uh no any node as a
is a recap like you can tell that
recovery is encoding
encoding or
because codex is used to mostly just say
okay i use
uh json encoding i use darkroad above i
use
uh any other codec
to to to understand how to uh
get the blocks to
to the memory uh about encoding
implementation so
uh there is a important uh
quality of read salaman it states that
all the blocks should have
same size and that was kind of like
issue for us to to solve
because uh ipfs blocks are not always
have the same size but rich solomon
needs them to be
the same so uh we i've decided to use
um and to encode
uh the size for the actual blocks
inside the redundant nodes
that way when we try to
recover some blocks we
copy blocks we have into charts there is
kind of special data structure
and it it manages uh uh do we have
enough
needed amount of blocks uh
and it helps you to uh
to actually uh restore the blocks
with the original size and get the
original size uh we use
a variable integer there
to get original data
for for that to work in ipfs like plug
and play
because uh if you have a
have a deck that you already created you
need to
encode it but not to change it
drastically for for the data be still
readable in ipfs manner
i hope you uh i hope i explained this
understandable um the next thing i would
like to tell you is a custom dock
session
so for
for ipld
we zero ipf has used dark service
uh that allows you to get
the ipfs nodes by cids
and there is a concept of sessions that
separate some
uh logic uh
some like group of notes um
for you to do fetch from the internet or
got
it locally so in custom duck session um
manages uh key pairs of um
already uh recovered uh of the
garden blocks like the blocks you
retrieved
and saves them as a reference for a next
iteration of traversing to the graph to
understand if um the node
i'm failed to get from the network
uh to get its parents
this is kind of like soft link currently
implemented and um
uh just just in memory uh where you
understand who can recover
the note i have uh did not i need right
now
in this current session so apparently
they are saved in
memory but i think there should be a
special
uh like uh special components
that's reps data store
and uh it's just says locally small
uh metadata about what
nodes can be recovered from from what
this won't add a lot of um like
additional storage but it's still useful
and it works only locally
so you you the node nodes
knows uh uh what what can i use to
recover
something something that i need um
something user asked uh the fourth thing
is uh recover this is actually an
interface
uh uh that has a red salomon
implementation
uh it manages states for recoveries
because if we for example imagine a ipfs
gateway
and many people try to get some
something from it
um
it may cause that in in the same moment
in the same moment a few uh
there will be a recovery process for
for same data that we would like to
avoid
so there is a recovery singleton that
manages different recovery sessions
and what allows it
to for
any user of ipfs to
point to
um oh sorry my
my headphones are off uh to point you
uh to recovery sessions that can be uh
going on at the same time um
that's probably all about implementation
reid solomon i think there is
this that's all i wanted to tell about
this uh the fourth thing
is um draft for novel alpha entanglement
implementation so um eric solomon
is um industry standard for
erasure codings but uh there are a lot
of ongoing research uh
regarding codings and there is
interesting noble alpha entertainment
uh paper and
uh going had a chance to even contact
their the people who were created
uh this paper and they also did a hack
for
ethereum uh and they integrated
somehow those noble alpha entanglements
but uh we decided to keep this out of
the scope
like ritzleman is easier to understand
and easier to implement
but we have a draft implementation for
authentication
yeah sorry i'd just like to say a couple
of things about that uh first of all i
was stuck on mutually
for the longest time so i couldn't say
anything uh yeah so alpha entitlement is
a way of
data being spread across the network
where you have
uh actual data uh when you have data
uploaded onto
the network which is uh could be
multiple different files so
you could upload a file someone else
could upload a file uh there are
redundancies that are formed for both
these files
uh in such a way that uh your file could
potentially help someone else's
recover someone else's file which could
be damaged or degraded for the reasons
that i mentioned before
uh so this is a it's a very new form and
it has been uh
there's a lot of experimentation going
on with other distributed systems such
as ethereum swarm as well
so i just wanted to bring that over to
the ipfs world so you know
i think uh the modularity the high level
of modularity that we have
with ipfs recovery also helps for us to
plug in
any erasure codes uh that in the future
could be even more crazy right
what we want to achieve is like the
information theoretic balance for how
how much we can recover out of degraded
data
and the last point here is test ground
so
of course the good folks over at ipfs uh
created test ground
and it's uh we want to kind of battle
test uh our implementation of recovery
both with solomon
alpha entanglement and all of them and
see how get an exact metric for how much
uh degradation we are able to uh
degradation of data and also of the
nodes on the network that we're able to
resist
and that's that's going to be a key
factor of determining how
how this can be integrated with the core
and then you know potentially deployed
in the
mainnet um i think uh
yeah there were some points about
recoverability that uh sleeve also
wanted to make
sure uh so there are like uh concepts
that can be uh used online
that's our kind of interface level uh
that's
uh uh should be covered here
uh the first is recoverability so um
this is kind of thing that allows you to
to like it's it's a parameter for the
data for
this encoder data that defines like
percentage
uh you want for your data to be
safely lost look it's recoverability
if you lost the percent uh you put in
regular ability of
the data you will still be able to
retrieve it from the network
so let's say i want a recoverability
i have a dac already in the network
and i do encode on it
putting regular ability 25 and
what it does it generates 25 percent
uh like adds more notes to this whole
deck
and uh if you lose 25
actually from this deck you originally
have on a network
you'll still be able to read the whole
data from from it
but like if really like we can tell
just add more data uh add more
25 more data but in terms of distributed
systems
i think that this overhead is is
is helpful and it will
allows the
or content to be
better retrievable that's
kind of this thing uh and um for reit
solomon uh this recoverability
works uh uh not with percent it works
just like we have a parameter that
defines the amount of node
of nodes you want to generate for
all the dog layers if you can see on the
on the picture we have here so if we
have recoverability 2
for the root block we have
uh that has two um
nodes we recover ability to generate
two more or uh to
in case uh two and three are lost
uh this is also like a possible case and
if you lost
loss free you won't be uh able to uh
get the contents of uh
six and uh everything that goes under
free
all right so at each level uh that is at
each parent node you you have uh
the number that's specified by your
recoverability that many redundancies
are created so at this level you can see
that
a and b are created and connected uh to
once in such a way that if
if you lose any two of these four nodes
you can use the rest to recover all of
them
uh and the same applies for two and all
its children
five and all its children any parent
know that has all its children
so this again this is uh reid solomon if
you have uh alpha entanglements uh
in our in our github uh in one of the
issues you can actually see a more
specified diagram for that
uh kind of use case uh so there's this
there
it's there's different ways to play
around with the dag structure uh thanks
to you know the ipld api which is uh
allows for this kind of thing to be done
really well um
and a little bit about strategies as
well
uh yes so this is uh
when you um
get the network from the uh get the data
from the ipfs
uh you um and you fall back to recovery
uh this might uh
uh will lead to additional data
on your nodes that you haven't asked for
i mean that's if i uh i need some
contents
and to get that content i i need another
content
and this another content is able on the
network i got it
i it helped me to recover
uh the data i needed but
i haven't asked for that data to recover
so um this strategy is this kind of
thing that
might be like it's better to put kind of
ipfs config that will do for you
uh like help you to decide what to do
with the
data uh this additional data you need
for recovery
yeah like uh
first is all
that means that you will help the
network
and you will store everything just data
means that
you will store only data um
data means only data means that you will
be able to when you do recovery
you can uh of the file this file
might you can get just part of the file
you don't need the whole file
but this part of the file uh has
uh some like lost blocks and
you need what you do you uh fall back to
other date and blocks for you to recover
original
blogs but if you have if the user
haven't asked for them
like in case of a third auction
that wouldn't store the this
uh those block wouldn't be stored but if
you choose just data
um in in this case i described uh
you the data you haven't asked for but
um you still fetch it from network or
you uh also
may regenerate it uh um with
other blogs you ask for in just data you
will save them locally
uh maybe you need the future or you will
help
to network and you will actually
provide it to the network in case you
requested that
you'll just do what you'll save only
things you need not the thing uh help
you to get what you need
yeah in the interest of time because i
think we're kind of running low
uh there are some use cases where you
know maybe more vital use cases where i
think uh
storing data and redundancies are would
be important even if it means paying a
little bit more you know having the
uh bearing a little bit more cost and
then there are some
cases like probably more average cases
where you just want to get the data and
keep the data so
we want to have these different kinds of
strategies as well
and i think this uh the future
really holds for any community
discussions we want to be able to talk
with the community see how i mean we
have a lot of ideas
clearly right we want to see what kind
of ideas you guys have and how we can
implement this
both for javascript and go ipfs
here about a second version of ipld i
haven't got enough time to actually dive
into new
specs uh they uh like
that protocol labs works on i know that
there is a lot of
new cool features that might be used
for recovery as well but i'm not sure
what uh exact
features we can use it for but recovery
as i said already for cid part
uh that recovery is kind of
it's it's a feature for this content
it's not an actual
way to represent this content so um
adding like additional uh more
something to to cd that will also be
put in ipld i think it's kind of
connected things
kind of this um also the second point
defining recovery
notes over adhd um going already told
about this in terms of alpha
entanglements
but uh there is also interesting idea
um i described you soft links
uh that are used for
for you can locally find
what notes you need to recover the data
you asked for
and um you will clearly
store this in that data store but what
if we put this
on dht uh that will uh allows
us to create kind of soft links on the
network so
this would be a kind of last resort for
you to restore
uh for to recover the data um like
actually ipfs currently when you try to
get something
and um it will just endlessly wait for
that
for the data it can find what if we
can do asynchronously uh
other things to uh
to find other other things on the
network
and kind of soft links so you can match
that this can recover that
because they uh
someone connected them and there is a
motivation for
um for people for users
to do interconnected
recovery nodes so for example
you want your data to help
other person other other data to recover
so you can connect and make those like
helpful notes
that will connect uh different parts of
the different decks
and will help from the from these two
decks you'll create some redundant notes
more and they
that way if you can help
different data help each other to
um
to recover them even though i can
there is an interesting example when uh
you want your content to be more
distributed over the network
you can connect it with demanding
content
you can help uh demand the content to
recover
so that way your content will be much
more
like distributed for some peers who uh
needed a recovery for a demanding
content so
there is there is a lot of
future new things